We're almost done,
time to add the rest of the recipe feature set here to the NgRx world
and for that, why don't we start by making sure that we can also edit and delete recipes. Thus far, that
still happens in the recipes service,
here we have add and update and delete recipe and these three things now should also be handled with
NgRx.
So let's go to the recipe actions and
let's export some new identifiers here,
ADD_RECIPE, where our string is add
recipe, then also uUPDATE_RECIPE,
update recipe here
and also DELETE_RECIPE,
delete recipe, like this.
These are the identifiers,
now of course we need the classes that meet them,
so we have AddRecipe which implements action and there the readonly type will be ADD_RECIPE of course.
Now there, we also need a constructor with a payload because obviously when we add a recipe, we need
to know which recipe to add and if we have a look at the recipe service, we see that we expect a recipe
here.
So let's do the same in our action,
we just assume that the payload is the recipe that should be added.
We also have our UpdateRecipe class that implements action and there the readonly type is UPDATE_RECIPE.
And now, just as before, here we also need a constructor,
let's check the recipes service,
there we expected the index of the recipe to be updated and that new recipe,
let's expect the same here on this action.
So our public payload here would be an object with the index which is a number
and with the new recipe which is a recipe. And we also of course have our DeleteRecipe action which implements
action and there, we also have the readonly type set to DELETE_RECIPE
and we also need some data here because for deleting, we also need to know which recipe to delete and
therefore, our payload is just a number, the index of the recipe that should be deleted
and that again is in line with the recipe service where we also get that index.
Now let's add all these newly added classes to that union type,
we can also add fetch recipes there and then it's AddRecipe, UpdateRecipe and DeleteRecipe, like that.
This is now all added here to the actions,
the next step is to work on the reducer because all these actions we just added result in synchronous
state updates,
none of those actions requires us to send an HTTP request or perform any side effect and therefore,
we can simply add a couple of new cases here in our reducer, for example for adding a recipe. In there,
we'll return a new state which is based on the old state and where we basically have an updated list
of recipes which is our old list of recipes plus the new recipe.
We can easily add this by first of all copying all the old recipes and then simply adding action.payload
as a new element because the payload for AddRecipe, so for this action here, is just a recipe that should
be added.
So that's the first new thing we added, the first new case,
now let's of course also handled a case that we update a recipe. In this scenario here,
we first of all have to find the recipe we want to update, then copy it, then change it, then copy the
list of recipes and then replace the updated recipe in that copied list with the updated recipe and
then use that copied and changed list as a new list of recipes.
So here first of all, we copy the old state and then we need to do all the things I just described, which
sounds more complicated than it is.
Let's first of all fetch the updated recipe by reaching out to our state recipes
and there, we use the action.payload.index to get the recipe with the index we want to change.
Now of course that would just be a pointer at the original object,
so let's wrap this in curly braces instead and use the spread operator to pull out all the properties
of that recipe, so now we created a copy of that old recipe and thereafter, let me split this into two
lines, thereafter I want to overwrite some properties and basically I want to use my action.payload new
recipe and with the spread operator, I extract all the properties from that new recipe and basically
merge them into this object which is my copy of the old recipe,
hence this will overwrite all the values of the old recipe with the updated values.
So that's the updated recipe,
now we just need the updated recipes, so the entire list. For that, I first of all copy my old recipe list
so that we have a new list
and then on the updated recipes, let's select the right recipe through the index here and set this
equal to the updated recipe to overwrite that element at this index in the copied list
and now we can use that copied list down there, updatedRecipes, like that. Now last but not least, the
delete case, for that
we have RecipeActions.DELETE_RECIPE,
we also return a new state object here where I copy my old state and then recipes here will be my old
recipes
but without the recipe I want to remove.
We can easily do that by referring to state recipes filter, filter will always return a new list,
so we don't mutate the old list and filter takes a function which gives us access to each element and
the index of that element and the index is important for us because we want to return index not equal
to action.payload.
Now why?
Because the action.payload here is the index of the element we want to remove
and if that's not equal to the index we're currently looking at and this function runs for every element
in the recipe list,
if these do not match, then we're not looking at the element with the index we want to remove. Therefore,
we will return true here and that means we keep it,
only if these do match, then we return false thanks to our not equal comparison and then we will remove
the matching element. That's the reducer,
these are the actions, the missing thing of course is to dispatch these actions.
For that, let's go to the recipe-edit component
and in there, in onSubmit, we emit update and add recipe. Let's no longer use the recipe service for that
but the store instead to dispatch a new recipes action and for that, we need to import these actions first,
so import as recipes actions from
store recipes actions
and with that imported, here I can use recipes actions
and here we're editing an action hence I want to dispatch a new update recipe action
and this requires this ID which is the index of the to be updated recipe wrapped in an object
though, so we set index equal to this ID and we set that new recipe equal to this recipe form value.
So now we're dispatching the update action,
let's do the same for adding a recipe, for this I'll dispatch a new recipes action,
add recipe like that
and here we now need to forward this recipe form value. Let's also make sure we can delete recipes, that
happens in the recipe-detail component. There, we have onDeleteRecipe, I no longer will use
the recipe service for that,
instead we use the store dispatch, a new recipes action, for that again we need to import everything
as recipes actions from this store folder and there from the recipe actions file and with that imported,
here we also use RecipeActions.DELETE_RECIPE, dispatch this and of course, add the information which
index the recipe has we want to remove and with all of that added, let's reload
our application and let's give this a try,
let's edit this, change the title. Now the changed title is not reflected because if we inspect Redux again, what
happens is that we do call update recipe here and indeed, if we have a look at the differences, we see that
one recipe was changed and got the new title but thereafter, we navigated and that kicked off the server
again which simply loaded new recipes from the server and that overwrites our change here. To fix that,
we can go back to our resolver and in here, we simply select our recipes from the store and add
pipe.
Now first of all, I add a map operator here which is imported from rxjs/operators of course and
here we get our recipesState and I return recipesState
recipes and
this now either is an empty array
if we haven't fetched any recipes yet or it is a filled array and therefore in the next operator I add
to this observable chain here, I'll add switchMap where I get my recipes. Now if recipes length is
equal to zero, then I know I have no recipes, in this case I'll dispatch this and in this case,
I'll return this observable with its own pipe, otherwise we'd still need to return an observable but otherwise
I just return of, using the of operator imported from rxjs
and I simply return my recipes in here.
So this means I don't send any request if we already have recipes. Now this overall observable here
is returned, now
I also first of all want to add take one here, to ensure we don't do this multiple times and with that if
we reload here, our data is fetched
and now if I edit this, this also persists because now we're not refetching data because I already
do have data in my storage.
Now let's also test the other things, deleting,
here we get an error, cannot read property name of undefined in the recipe-edit component. This error occurs
if I go into edit mode and then I cancel and then I delete this recipe,
reason for that is that in the recipe-edit component here, I never clean up my subscription for selecting
data from the store and we should do that here. So let's add a private storeSub which is of type subscription
which needs to be imported from rxjs,
like this
and now let's go to the place where we set up this subscription which is here,
like this and in ngOnDestroy which I now also want to add and hence we should add the onDestroy
interface here and implement this, import it from @angular/core,
now we add ngOnDestroy maybe here and in there,
I call this storeSub unsubscribe and if we do that and I now fetch data again, if I go into edit mode
and then I cancel and then I delete,
now this works because now we don't have any old subscription that tries to fetch data which isn't there
anymore.
Now in the recipe detail page, we don't need to do that,
so if I delete here without editing first, we get no error because in a recipe detail page, we set this
subscription up as part of our route parent subscription and there, Angular takes responsibility for
us and unsubscribes for us and hence we don't have any ongoing old subscription here.
Let me reload and fetch again,
let's now also try adding a new recipe, test some image,
this is a test and add an ingredient, like buns one. Save this
and here we also get an error, cannot read property unsubscribe of undefined.
Now the problem here is stemming from that unsubscribe we just added in the recipe edit page, if we never
were in edit mode in init form here, then we never set up the subscription and hence when we tried
to unsubscribe, we fail, so we should check if this storeSub even exists and we can only unsubscribe
if it does.
So that's an improvement we have to make here and with that, let's try creating a new recipe
again,
test, add an ingredient, buns one and hit save
and now this looks way better and we can view it here as well. We can fetch our data which will overwrite
that existing ingredient but that all looks pretty good now.
So these core mechanisms now all seem to work.